# StochasticModifiedKiBaM-battery simulation model in OMNET++
    A major constraint in design of mobile embedded systems today is the battery lifetime for a given size and weight of the battery. With the tremendous increase in the computing power of hardware and the relatively slow growth in the energy densities of the battery technologies, estimating the lifetime and energy delivered by the battery has become increasingly important to choose between alternative implementations and architectures for mobile computing platforms.</br>
    In early models, the electrochemical processes in the battery have been expressed using partial differential equations. Although they take the recovery effect into account, they are cumbersome and they take prohibitively long (order of days) to estimate battery life [5]. They typically rely on numerical simulation and require significant computation, which makes them impractical. Stochastic battery models [6, 8] have also been proposed which are faster than to the PDE model and also inculcate the recovery and rate capacity effects but we have found that these were not sufficiently sensitive to predict certain experimental observations dealing with recovery.</br>
    The Stochastic Modified KiBaM effectively addresses the drawbacks of its previous models. In this project Stochastic Modified KiBaM is realized using OMNET ++. The effect of battery life has been studied with respect to various parameters. This paper gives an intuitive idea about how these parameters effect on battery life based on the OMNET simulation.
